[Music]
when you think of cute animals you
immediately think of small furry species
well in this episode we've got plenty of
that even if you've never heard of them
[Music]
I'm Hannah Sifl and today we're at
Bristol Zoo taking a look at some
unusual species with much larger well
known cousin
[Music]
our first species is highly elusive and
confined to the interior jungles of West
Africa a nocturnal forest creature that
is a tenth of the size of its well known
cousin the African river hippo it is the
very shy and very cute pygmy hippo these
tiny hippos are mainly found in the
forests of Liberia but also the Ivory
Coast during the day they stayed well
hidden amongst the undergrowth of swamps
and riverbanks mainly being active at
night to feed just like they're much
larger cousins they come onto land in
the cool of the night to graze
vegetation
it's thought they eat a variety of roots
leaves and fruits but they also have the
ability to stand up on their hind legs
to reach vegetation higher up in the
bushes if they want to
although they look just like a miniature
version of the African river hippo pygmy
hippos in fact have many different
features they lead a semi-aquatic
lifestyle but are much less adapted to
water their feet are less webbed and
they spend more of their time on land
they have rounded shorter snouts with
smaller nostrils and they only have one
set of incisor teeth pygmy hippos are
also generally solitary creatures
although it has been reported they
sometimes move around together in pairs
[Music]
still very little is known about pygmy
hippos in the wild
due to their habits environment and
their size they are very difficult to
study with estimates putting their
population numbers only between 2,000 or
3,000 so let's hope we can find out more
about these beautiful creatures
our next species is only found in the
forests of the very northern tip of
Madagascar and they are the smallest
true lemurs in the world the crowned
lemur
these lemurs are in the same family as
the Mongoose and red lemurs and they are
fantastic characters all with their very
own personalities being active during
the day they will spend their time
traveling through the undergrowth
foraging for fruits which make up
between 80 to 90 percent of their diet
[Music]
crowned lemurs will often come to ground
to forage taking advantage of the
seasonal fruiting bushes in the dry
forests of Madagascar they will travel
in groups of up to 15 individuals in the
wild and it is easy to tell the
difference between the males and females
due to their coloration the males have a
full coverage of reddish brown fur with
a black patch on the tops of their heads
whereas the females have grey fur all
over their bodies and both have a bright
orange reddish crown their main predator
is the fossa
Madagascar's top carnivore but they will
also be taken by eagles and crocodiles
so it really is safety in numbers and if
there's any sign of danger nearby the
crowned lemurs will make an alarm call
to the rest of the group and they will
flee to safety and when you only weigh
in at 1.7 kilograms being part of a
group really does help
[Music]
one animal has a name that you would
usually associate with the Outback of
Australia but unlike its distant cousins
that bounce around the bush this species
has taken to climbing through the trees
the Goodfellows tree kangaroo a rather
peculiar looking marsupial with its
reddish brown fur and long rounded claws
it is endemic to the mountainous
rainforests of Papua New Guinea in
comparison to their Australian
ground-dwelling cousins they are
incredibly small being less than half
the size of the Australian kangaroo we
all know and love being adapted to life
in the forests tree kangaroos have
shorter legs and strong stocky 4 limbs
which enable them to climb through the
canopy even though they can still appear
a little bit clumsy
they feed on a variety of leaves buds
and fruits in the wild and have an
excellent sense of smell which helps
them to find the tastiest vegetation
they also have the ability to move their
back legs independently from one another
meaning they can walk backwards along
the branches
they have long almost golden tails which
not only help them balance as they
clamber through the trees but their
patterns are completely unique to the
individual much like we have unique
fingerprints the Good Fellas tree
kangaroos reddish brown tail markings
are all completely different they are
highly elusive and incredibly difficult
to spot spending most of their time way
up high in the rainforest canopy and to
this day very little is known about them
[Music]
our next species weighs in at just
roughly 500 grams and is one of the
world's smallest monkeys but what it
lacks in size it certainly makes up for
in appearance it is the golden lion
tamarin these tiny new world monkeys are
found in the humid forests along the
Atlantic coast of Southeast Brazil and
they are simply adorable they get their
name from their impressive golden orange
mane which looks similar to the mane of
a lion golden lion tamarins are highly
sociable animals in the wild they will
live in family groups between two and
eight individuals and they will never
leave each other's side social grooming
plays an important role in family
bonding as well as play fighting and
wrestling one another each family group
will have one breeding pair and when the
female is ready to give birth she will
usually give birth to twins the entire
family helps to take care of the babies
but it is usually the adult male that
does most of the work and he will carry
the babies for up to five weeks until
they are ready to start exploring their
environment
they are highly active during the
daytime maybe having a mid-afternoon
snooze but at night they will find small
holes in the trees to sleep in keeping
them safe from predators
all through the night during our time at
Bristol Zoo we were very lucky to be
invited in to see a little bit of what
happens behind the scenes with the
crowned lemurs and we were joined by
Shaniqua the senior large mammal keeper
to take a closer look we don't encourage
them on the door but they obviously come
to see if we've got any food for them
which I've hidden in my pockets we can't
see but as soon as I come through she'll
go away so if you just step to the side
here
yeah they've got amazing hands let's
just say human-like and well bit spider
like as well aren't they they really are
so tell us a bit about your crown lemurs
that with now surrounded by ambitious
with me and well we've got a full crown
lemurs at the moment we've got mum and
dad say this one over here is loco he's
the dirt and behind you on the Shelf up
there is T aku
he's the mum and then we've got the
twins we've got sunny here and we've got
muddy yeah I've got a lovely little
family group here so you can see that
the females are different colors from
the male so they're more gray so they're
what we call sexually dimorphic yeah so
they're the males over orange your color
females are a gray color and they call
crowned lemurs if you look at their
heads they've got just a crown shape
what's their conservation status in the
wild so like all lemurs they're
endangered and there's hardly any of
them in the world cuz they're only
they're only found on Madagascar and so
basically there's a lot of deforestation
going on there sometimes hunting as well
so there's not many of them left in the
world so that's why we've got these guys
here they're they're super important to
breed them in case we can ever release
them back
bris hoodie does support a project out
in Madagascar so we've been I think it's
like 14 years we were supposed to put it
out there actually and they've done all
sorts of studies on the world lemurs
just it's very interesting isn't it
really
we've done all sorts of studies just
orally my behavior and that kind of
thing the amount of numbers they've got
in the world because that's something
that's relatively understudied and
they're in the middle of building
research then throughout this that we
can actually go over and we can monitor
these guys in the world which would be
incredible so that'd be lovely once it's
all done now was this useful this
contraption thing here they've basically
old-school zoo keeping if an animal was
sick you'd have to kind of grab it in a
net and take it up to the vets in an
emergency style but nowadays we don't we
need to do stuff like that anymore
because they're very very easy to train
to do things like that so what we've got
here is what we call a catch up to you
yeah so I've got some sneaky sweet
potato in my pocket which is their
favorite and if I him I offered them a
bit of sweet potato in there they'll go
in and I can shut them in and it's
stress free and then if I needed to take
them to the vet I could literally just
take that up to the Vet Center and
they'd be absolutely fine and then we
just let them out and you can see is not
really bothered at all and what will
their diet consists of the wild in the
world there'll be mainly eating fruits
and that lays of studies have shown that
actually the fruit they eat in the world
is the same sugar content of the
vegetables that we have here so if we do
give them fruit it's the equivalent to
giving them like loads of sugar and
sweets so what we've done is we just
feed them on vegetables now because it's
the kind of the same nutritional content
and quality that they would have in the
wild I mean they're absolutely gorgeous
they are look at the
thank you so much for giving us a behind
the scenes look at the crown lemurs here
they're absolutely brilliant thank you
oh you're welcome glad to
you
[Music]
[Applause]